---
layout: post
title: 10x
---

I don't claim to be a 10x engineer. But I have noticed I have grown a ton in my productivity after many years of tuning my workflows. Here is my mentality about what it might take to be a 10x engineer.

1. Don't hestitate to change direction when you receive new information. If it kind of sounds right, it probably is, it's just new and your mind needs time to come to terms with it. You can override this mental process the more you pay attention to it, and when these situations come up, commit wholly and asap to the new direction. Throw away theh past idea and come to peace with it. Changing your mind can be hard because it's human nature to tie self-identity to your first ideas. Your willingness to accept new information and change direction with it will avoid deliberation and analysis paralysis. Hesitation kills!

I find the best strategy for this is to not get attached with a particular solution or technology. Your attachment should be on the problem you're solving.

2. Know what is the right thing to do and do it without hestitation. Comes with experience. If I'm ever struggling with how to write some code, I will literally write 2+ implementations just to see them, and then pick the one I like more. This is something that slowed down my delivery in the first many years of my career, and only now I'm to the point where I can pretty confidently jump straight to the right implementation. Too long winded.

3. Learn quickly (high ROI). Learn durably. Don't hesitate to jump deeply into learning mode if that's what's required, but seriously avoid hesitation.

4. Automate personal workflows, including micro optimizations. As an example of a micro optimization, I recently rebound IDE shortcuts for reverting the diff "hunk" where the cursor is and navigating to next diff "hunk" in a file. It's not about [saving time](https://xkcd.com/1205), it's about saving your attention span. Each micro-context-switch off of the high value task has a high overhead that can add up to hurt your flow state.

You need to pay attention to what distracts your brain and causes you to exit flow state even for a few seconds.

5. Stay focused on a singular task til it's done. Even if it means watching your code compile. Do not alt-tab to check slack during the 2 seconds it takes your tests to recompile and run. It costs way more than you think.

6. Say "no" to interesting tasks if you're at capacity. I think your currently executing work should be concurrency limited to maybe 2.
