draft/how-i-write-a-design-doc.md, before:

How I write a document:
- Meta: Break this into discrete, independent sections. Not a flow or process, just individual advice.
    - Intro: Here's some mechanical habits that I consciously follow when I write a doc. I don't always do every single one of these.
- start with bullet points
- crank out content
- organize content into a cohesive, ordered structure only when you're in the mood (takes more effort than content)
    - order structure the same way you'd have a conversation.
    - Explain the biggest point first. Clarify tricky points. Answer expected FAQs only after introducing the point that would lead to a question.
- continually iterate on content and order. Optimize for reader's effort and understanding
    - iterate = read through doc, find what flows, what doesn't. What questions do you have while you're reading?
- Productivity: I draft in sublime text. I'm more productive with re-ordering lines and multi-cursor mode.
    - I usually have line-wrap turns off, which forces my initial points to be focused and fit on a single screen (15" laptop screen).
- Diagrams:
    - start with drawing by hand.
    - My favorite diagraming tool is a yellow notepad, a black, blue, and red pen, and a yellow, green, blue, pink highlighter.
        - I have one at my desk and one in my backpack.
    - Diagramming by hand is a hugely underrated skill. Force yourself to diagram things in a quick, sloppy way just to improve your own understanding. Plan to not show anyone. It removes the pressure/expectation of having a high quality, understandable diagram. Maybe that's why I prefer paper rather than a whiteboard, as the paper is more private and I know no one will see or judge my notes.
    - I am adament that most (maybe nearly all) people are not hand-diagramming enough.
    - Get productive with a diagramming tool. You *need* both box-arrow diagraming and sequence diagramming. If you're not familiar, eat the learning cost of learning a new software. Ask your senior engineers what they use. Just pick something and stick with it!
    - Don't overthink it. Don't add too much detail. I like to imagine the target audience of someone in the org who is vaguely familiar with my project, but doesn't know any details. What would you draw for them on a whiteboard? It'd probably be pretty simple boxes to start with. And only when you need to dive into an area do your diagrams get more detailed.
    - Diagrams are way easier for people to grok quickly. If you're writing an engineering/design document, my rule of thumb is try to have 1 complimentary diagram per page or large section. Don't force it, don't make a junk diagram just to take up space. The most important thing is to empathize with your readers. No one enjoys reading a thick wall of text (like this post lol).
- Have an Appendix.
    - If you put a lot of work into a section, but you later realize it's making the doc really busy and overly detailed, don't fall for the sunk cost fallacy of keeping it in the doc just because you already put in the effort.
    - A lot of times you put in work. You gather some metrics. You draw some detailed diagram
- Finally, be cognizent of others' writing! Pay attention to when you're reading documents, does a doc "feel" good to read? Does the content flow well? Do you understand it well? If yes, try to understand why. If not, try to imagine what you'd change to make it better. You don't have to give that feedback to the author, that's not necessarily the point I'm trying to make here. Just learn through consuming others' reading.
    - Review the doc from a skimming, completely superficial perspective. Pretend you're an executive and you have 3 minutes to read your doc. Can you quickly skim the section headers and arrive at the spiciest part of the doc? (Should your reader have to skim multiple headers to find the spiciest part?)

Commit message:

Publish design docs are a tool

draft/how-i-write-a-design-doc.md, after:

How I write a document:
- Meta: Break this into discrete, independent sections. Not a flow or process, just individual advice.
Here are some habits that I follow when I write a doc. I don't always do every single one of these.

## Crank out content

- start with bullet points
    - put TODOs in docs just like in code
- crank out content
- organize content into a cohesive, ordered structure only when you're in the mood (takes more effort than content)
    - order structure the same way you'd have a conversation.
    - Explain the biggest point first. Clarify tricky points. Answer expected FAQs only after introducing the point that would lead to a question.
- continually iterate on content and order. Optimize for reader's effort and understanding
    - iterate = read through doc, find what flows, what doesn't. What questions do you have while you're reading?
- Productivity: I draft in sublime text. I'm more productive with re-ordering lines and multi-cursor mode.
    - I usually have line-wrap turns off, which forces my initial points to be focused and fit on a single screen (15" laptop screen).
- Diagrams:
    - start with drawing by hand.
    - My favorite diagraming tool is a yellow notepad, a black, blue, and red pen, and a yellow, green, blue, pink highlighter.
        - I have one at my desk and one in my backpack.
    - Diagramming by hand is a hugely underrated skill. Force yourself to diagram things in a quick, sloppy way just to improve your own understanding. Plan to not show anyone. It removes the pressure/expectation of having a high quality, understandable diagram. Maybe that's why I prefer paper rather than a whiteboard, as the paper is more private and I know no one will see or judge my notes.
    - I am adament that most (maybe nearly all) people are not hand-diagramming enough.
    - Get productive with a diagramming tool. You *need* both box-arrow diagraming and sequence diagramming. If you're not familiar, eat the learning cost of learning a new software. Ask your senior engineers what they use. Just pick something and stick with it!
    - Don't overthink it. Don't add too much detail. I like to imagine the target audience of someone in the org who is vaguely familiar with my project, but doesn't know any details. What would you draw for them on a whiteboard? It'd probably be pretty simple boxes to start with. And only when you need to dive into an area do your diagrams get more detailed.
    - Diagrams are way easier for people to grok quickly. If you're writing an engineering/design document, my rule of thumb is try to have 1 complimentary diagram per page or large section. Don't force it, don't make a junk diagram just to take up space. The most important thing is to empathize with your readers. No one enjoys reading a thick wall of text (like this post lol).
- Have an Appendix.
    - If you put a lot of work into a section, but you later realize it's making the doc really busy and overly detailed, don't fall for the sunk cost fallacy of keeping it in the doc just because you already put in the effort.
    - A lot of times you put in work. You gather some metrics. You draw some detailed diagram
- Finally, be cognizent of others' writing! Pay attention to when you're reading documents, does a doc "feel" good to read? Does the content flow well? Do you understand it well? If yes, try to understand why. If not, try to imagine what you'd change to make it better. You don't have to give that feedback to the author, that's not necessarily the point I'm trying to make here. Just learn through consuming others' reading.
    - Review the doc from a skimming, completely superficial perspective. Pretend you're an executive and you have 3 minutes to read your doc. Can you quickly skim the section headers and arrive at the spiciest part of the doc? (Should your reader have to skim multiple headers to find the spiciest part?)


### Writing style/tone

Write design docs exactly as you'd speak to someone, word for word. Write the exact same prose as if you're verbally explaining an idea to someone, with a whiteboard present. Use the whiteboard to aid conversation, and when you do draw on the whiteboard, that's a big indicator that a diagram would be helpful in a doc. And the diagram doesn't have to be any more fancy or polished than a digital replica of what you've drawn on the whiteboard.

...I avoid re-reading and overly editing my sentences as I write them. It's usually most productive to get in a write-only flow, and then go back and word-smith for better density and clarity later. I'm just starting to practice this, but I hope to get to a point where I can type out exactly what I'd say to someone, and do a write-only flow with near-zero edits after the fact. I think that will be a huge boost to productivity, especially when it comes to influential writing, scaling yourself, and maximizing your impact.


### Improving writing quality

If you want to get better at writing high quality docs, the best advice I can give is write more of them. Don't spend more time per doc. Spend more time writing a higher number of docs. Your best docs are yet to come, so be patient and let opportunity and experience help you learn.



### Copy from design tool save time

I like to put placeholder sections and "TODO" bullet points to show roughly what I'm planning and ask if the doc structure makes sense and if the details I'm planning to get will be useful to help make a decision. You never know, maybe one of your early-reviewers can help save you a ton of time by telling you one option is definitely not acceptable, and you don't need to thoroughly evaluate it. This way you spend iteration time where it matters and you can save time going into detail where it's not needed.
